------- Notes from week 1-------
------- HTML -------

- Hyper Text Markup Language (not a programming language its a markup language)
- A simple framework
- Body should have 'header','main', and 'footer'
- 'nav' element - contains menu links
- 'a' element - contains hyper link 
    Ex:<a href="index.html">Home</a>

------- CSS -------

- Cascading Style Sheets (language used to style a document)
- Can costomize pages for different screens sizes 
- CSS selectors are patterns used to target HTML elements so you can style them.
    Ex:'.greeting' would be the css selector for the HTML of '<p class="greeting">Hello, world!</p>'
- To use multiple selectors just add a comma between selectors
- CSS Combinators define the relationship between selectors — basically, how elements are connected in the HTML structure. 
    Ex:'div p' Selects all <p> elements inside any <div> (at any level) -or- 'div > p'	Selects p elements that are direct children of a <div>
- Pseudo Elment in CSS - A keyword you add to a selector to target elements based on their state or position, without needing a class or ID.
    ex:'hover:', 'firstchild:'

------- JavaScript -------

- Javascript is called in an html document at the end but can be moved to the top of the document.      
    ex:<script type="text/javascript" src="chat-widget.js" defer />

------- DOM -------

- Document Object Model - a programming interface that represents a web page so that programs (like JavaScript) can read, manipulate, and change its content, structure, and style.

- Imagine your HTML page is a tree.
    - The root of this tree is the <html> element.
    - Branches and leaves are other elements like <body>, <div>, <p>, <h1>, etc.
    - Each element is a node in the DOM tree.

 Because it lets developers
    - Access and change HTML elements (document.getElementById("myDiv").textContent = "Hello!")
    - Add or remove elements dynamically
    - Handle events like clicks, form submissions, key presses, etc.
    - Change the CSS of elements on the fly

- The DOM isn’t part of JavaScript itself. It’s provided by the browser, and JavaScript just uses it.

With JavaScript. For example --

    <p id="demo">Hello</p>
    <button onclick="changeText()">Click me</button>

    <script>
    function changeText() {
        document.getElementById("demo").textContent = "You clicked the button!";}
    </script>

    - When you click the button, the DOM is updated, and the text changes.

   

